# Scripts <!-- omit from toc -->

This directory contains scripts used by the project.

## Contents <!-- omit from toc -->
- [`run_vunit.py`](#run_vunitpy)
- [`run_sby.py`](#run_sbypy)
- [`synthesize_svg.py`](#synthesize_svgpy)
- [`doc_fix.py`](#doc_fixpy)
- [`load_surfer.py`](#load_surferpy)


## `run_vunit.py`

`run_vunit.py` is a script used to run VUnit tests.

If there is a `vunit_config.py` file in the testbench directory, this script will load the Python module and call the `configure` function (which is expected to be located within that Python module). This can be used to vary the generics of the testbench, while keeping this code separate from the main `run_vunit.py` script.

## `run_sby.py`

`run_sby.py` is a script used to run SymbiYosys formal verification.

## `synthesize_svg.py`

`synthesize_svg.py` is a script used to synthesize SVG diagrams from VHDL code.

## `doc_fix.py`

`doc_fix.py` is a script which improves documentation of VHDL entities found within `source/` directory.

It does the following things:
1. renames `entity_name/entity_name.md` files (default TerosHDL name) to `entity_name/README.md` (required by GitHub in order to show the contents of the file when inspecting the directory)
1. renames WaveDrom SVGs generated by TerosHDL, which contain random string identifiers by default, to a predictable name, which allows version control of the SVGs, and updates the references in the relevant `entity_name/README.md` file to the new names
1. analyzes the `entity_name/entity_name.vhd` file, extracts all VHDL and PSL asserts from it and appends a Markdown file documenting the asserts to `entity_name/README.md`
1. adds white background to all SVGs, if they don't already have one, to ensure that they are visible on GitHub (which features dark theme) 

## `load_surfer.py`

`load_surfer.py` is a script used to load VCD files into Surfer, along with a state file if it exists.

It accepts the test name as a command line glob pattern. It then locates the test and its state files (if there are any) and loads them into Surfer. If there are multiple tests matching the pattern, or multiple state files for the given testbench, it will prompt the user to select which test or state file to load.